Egypt's President says he won't allow
refugees from Gaza into his country
adding it would make the peninsula a
target for
Israel the whole concept of transferring
Palestinians from the Gaza Strip into
Sinai is simply moving the fighting and
resistance from the Gaza Strip to Sinai
which means Sinai will become a base for
military operations against Israel and
then Israel will try to defend itself
and direct its military operations
against Egypt and sin Egypt has
committed to establishing peace we
should remain dedicated to our
investment in the peace process we
should come up with a viable solution if
there is a transfer let it be to the
Negev Desert in Israel let Israel do
what they wish to do with the military
operatives in Gaza before returning the
Palestinians back all acts by Israel
cutting water and electricity is a means
to forcibly transfer Palestinians into
the Sinai Peninsula which we totally
reject let speak speak to our diplomatic
editor James baz he joins us now live
here in the studio and danan James I
want to ask you about the security
Council what's going on there in a
minute but picking up on what Alan was
saying about so many Arab leaders
pulling out saying No thank you to a
meeting with Biden if you were hoping I
guess that Biden is coming to kind of
broker some kind of ceasefire agreement
does it look like we're going that way
at all I think we may well be going to
something short of a Ceasar but some
sort of humanitarian pause but you're
right the events of the last few hours
have really changed things situation the
situation changed radically on October
the 7th and it's changed radically again
the Arab Street I think is what's
driving this Arab leaders I think are
saying you know we're not going to stick
with our existing position we now need
to have a ceasefire um I don't think
we're going to get the ceasefire but
we're going to get something short of
that I think and that which brings us to
what's happening in the security Council
right we've got this Brazilian draft
text is that going to succeed where the
Russian one failed well I'm just
speaking to our colleague Christen
salumi who's there'll be covering that
in the next 45 minutes when it happens
uh and uh there was apparently some
pressure behind the scenes for the from
the US mission to the United Nations to
actually delay this vote doesn't look
that like that's going to happen
supposed to vote in 45 minutes from now
right they are going to vote they are
the US the US were apparently putting
some pressure on to have a delay until
Biden was in the air but that delay is
not happening it looks like the vote is
definitely on 45 minutes from now this
is a resolution that the draft have been
worked on for some days and it's been
watered down it originally called for an
iMed immediate ceasefire it now calls
for humanitarian pauses and what I think
the US why the US will support this
resolution from everything I'm hearing
is that they will use this then to try
and re- um push the plan of secretary
blinkin which was to get the Americans
out the those that are that have
American passports that are in Gaza 5 to
600 people most of them jeel Nationals
get them out of the raer Crossing and
get some Aid in a limited pause and then
of course uh the American position is
that Israel has the right to defend
itself so that the bombardment will
continue after that just briefly why did
they want to delay the vote I think the
words I heard was they wanted not to
have this vote while President Biden was
still in the region they wanted him on a
plane out of here that's the the
understanding that I got from people
okay but then if the idea is a pause
rather than a ceasefire what happens
after that you've we've got some
foreigners out still got millions of
Palestinians stuck in Gaza Under
Siege I mean does the the paws change
the reality of doesn't change the
reality it does mean that per they
occupied they're under siege and they're
bombed might they might have some food
and water and medicines delivered but
then they will be bombarded again okay
very Bleak Outlook then what's happening
with diplomacy is this the the big
diplomatic solution that
this seems at this stage to be all that
diplomacy is able to achieve the UN
Secretary General is currently um in or
on his way from um from from Beijing to
Cairo the humanitarian chief of the UN
is uh also in Caro they'll be hoping
that this pause and then delivery of Aid
if it happens is a first step they can
build on all right thanks so much James
Bay always appreciate your input thanks
for coming
in